README.md, before:

## *P*ost-*A*ssembly *V*ariant *Finder* (PAVFinder)

PAVFinder is a Python package that detects structural variants from *de novo* assemblies (e.g. [ABySS](http://www.bcgsc.ca/platform/bioinfo/software/abyss), [Trans-ABySS](http://www.bcgsc.ca/platform/bioinfo/software/trans-abyss)).  As such, it is able to analyse both genome and transcriptome assemblies:

### genomic structural variants `pavfinder genome`
- translocations
- inversions
- duplications
- insertions
- deletions
- simple-repeat expansions/contractions

### transcriptomic structural variants `pavfinder fusion`
- gene fusions
- internal tandem duplications (ITD)
- partial tandem duplications (PTD)
- small indels
- simple-repeat expansions/contractions

### transcriptomic splice variants `pavfinder splice`
- skipped exons
- novel exons
- novel introns
- retained introns
- novel splice acceptors/donors

PAVFinder infers variants from non-contiguous (split or gapped) contig sequence alignments to the reference genome. Assemblies can be aligned to the reference genome (`c2g` alignment) using [bwa mem](http://bio-bwa.sourceforge.net/)(genome) or [gmap](http://research-pub.gene.com/gmap/)(transcriptome).  Read support for events can be gathered by aligning reads to the assembly using [bwa mem](http://bio-bwa.sourceforge.net/) (`r2c` alignment).

A pipeline that bundles the 3 analysis steps called `TAP` (*T*ransabyss-*A*lignment-*P*AVFinder) is provided to facilitate whole transcriptome analysis. TAP is also designed to be run in a targeted mode on selected genes. This requires a [Bloom Filter](http://www.bcgsc.ca/platform/bioinfo/software/biobloomtools) of targeted gene sequences to be created beforehand. Whereas the full assembly of a single RNAseq library with over 100 million read pairs requires more than 24 hours to complete, a targeted assembly and analysis of a gene list (e.g. [COSMIC](http://cancer.sanger.ac.uk/census/)) of several hundred can be completed within half an hour.

A new pipeline named `fusion-bloom` coupling PAVFinder with our latest RNA-seq assembler [RNA-Bloom](https://github.com/bcgsc/RNA-Bloom) has been added to the repository. We demonstrated that it has higher senstivitiy and specificity than most state-of-the-art fusion callers.    

### Publication
Readman Chiu, Ka Ming Nip, Justin Chu and Inanc Birol. **TAP: a targeted clinical genomics pipeline for detecting transcript variants using RNA-seq data**. *BMC Med Genomics* (2018) 11:79 [https://doi.org/10.1186/s12920-018-0402-6](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12920-018-0402-6)

Commit message:

version 1.3.0 - TAP2 (using RNA-Bloom)

README.md, after:

## *P*ost-*A*ssembly *V*ariant *Finder* (PAVFinder)

PAVFinder is a Python package that detects structural variants from *de novo* assemblies (e.g. [ABySS](http://www.bcgsc.ca/platform/bioinfo/software/abyss), [Trans-ABySS](http://www.bcgsc.ca/platform/bioinfo/software/trans-abyss)).  As such, it is able to analyse both genome and transcriptome assemblies:

### genomic structural variants `pavfinder genome`
- translocations
- inversions
- duplications
- insertions
- deletions
- simple-repeat expansions/contractions

### transcriptomic structural variants `pavfinder fusion`
- gene fusions
- internal tandem duplications (ITD)
- partial tandem duplications (PTD)
- small indels
- simple-repeat expansions/contractions

### transcriptomic splice variants `pavfinder splice`
- skipped exons
- novel exons
- novel introns
- retained introns
- novel splice acceptors/donors

PAVFinder infers variants from non-contiguous (split or gapped) contig sequence alignments to the reference genome. Assemblies can be aligned to the reference genome (`c2g` alignment) using [bwa mem](http://bio-bwa.sourceforge.net/)(genome) or [gmap](http://research-pub.gene.com/gmap/)(transcriptome).  Read support for events can be gathered by aligning reads to the assembly using [bwa mem](http://bio-bwa.sourceforge.net/) (`r2c` alignment).

A pipeline that bundles the 3 analysis steps called `TAP` (*T*ransabyss-*A*lignment-*P*AVFinder) is provided to facilitate whole transcriptome analysis. TAP is also designed to be run in a targeted mode on selected genes. This requires a [Bloom Filter](http://www.bcgsc.ca/platform/bioinfo/software/biobloomtools) of targeted gene sequences to be created beforehand. Whereas the full assembly of a single RNAseq library with over 100 million read pairs requires more than 24 hours to complete, a targeted assembly and analysis of a gene list (e.g. [COSMIC](http://cancer.sanger.ac.uk/census/)) of several hundred can be completed within half an hour.

A new pipeline named `fusion-bloom` coupling PAVFinder with our latest RNA-seq assembler [RNA-Bloom](https://github.com/bcgsc/RNA-Bloom) has been added to the repository. We demonstrated that it has higher senstivitiy and specificity than most state-of-the-art fusion callers.    

`TAP2`, the next version of `TAP` using RNA-Bloom instead of Trans-ABySS for better transcriptome assembly, has been released.

### Publication
Readman Chiu, Ka Ming Nip, Justin Chu and Inanc Birol. **TAP: a targeted clinical genomics pipeline for detecting transcript variants using RNA-seq data**. *BMC Med Genomics* (2018) 11:79 [https://doi.org/10.1186/s12920-018-0402-6](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12920-018-0402-6)
